---
title: How does Predpol affect our society?
sidebar_position: 2
---
- The first positive effect Predpol generates is crime prevention, defined as efforts to restrict crime from occurring. PredPol is 10 times more likely to predict the location of crime than random patrolling and more than twice as likely to predict crime as boxes produced using intelligence led techniques. (Aguirre & Muggah, 2019). Then, Emmy said Predpol can help strengthen police and community ties (2021). In addition to crime reduction results, most of our deployments notice an improvement in their community policing efforts.

- However, according to Dinale (2014), It could be argued that Predpol breaches privacy laws in his attempt at exploiting a Big Data of criminal activities and urban patterns. 

- Furthermore, for the reason of “Dirty data” and “Juked stats”, which refers to data collection and data manipulation, this system brings about a lot of problems. According to Kapatamoyo and Dominiguez (2019), predictive policing systems employed data from human entries, artificial intelligence platforms, as well as aggregated data from disparate databases. The different systems and standards of data management may create some adverse effects on populations whose data is misapplied. As Moraff said (2019), people outside of these police departments and intelligence authorities have no idea that predictive policing relies on data that is unilaterally provided by individual police agencies themselves, or by the firms peddling software to them. This affects the data’s reliability. Besides this, the Hypothesis in predictive crime analysis is that rather than occurring randomly, crimes are concentrated in space and spread through a local neighborhood, which highly rely on the past crimes. This may cause a vicious cycle: the more police are sent to an area,the more crime they can see (Benbouzid, 2018). Same as Venkatasubramanian’s opinion that “when a tool like PredPol tells police where to go, crime data starts to be affected by PredPol itself, creating a self-reinforcing feedback loop”. This brings the problem of waste of police resources and also leads to security flaws in other areas.

- More seriously, the use of Predpol may profoundly deepen racial discrimination and the split of society. Machine learning-based predictive policing algorithms can learn to discriminate facially on the basis of race because they are exposed to and learn from data derived from the racist realities of the United States criminal justice system-a world in which Black Americans are incarcerated in state prisons at a rate that is 5.1 times the imprisonment of whites, 1 and one of every three Black men born today can expect to go to prison in his lifetime if current trends continue. According to O'Donnell (2019), machine learning-based policing algorithms learn to replicate and exacerbate these patterns by associating race and criminality. At this level, predpol may deepen social rifts and racial discrimination.							
  
## Reference

Aguirre, K., Badran, E., & Muggah, R. (2019). FUTURE CRIME. https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/62226030/2019-07-12-NE_33_Future_Crime20200228-46750-1q80ccr-with-cover-page-v2.pdf?Expires=1638657141&Signature=NqzCtEuObR~z1PzsZyKxWNekBvQhW6bMt3jbsLHabpvWi~Yv~EJW9JWRP05mzKfU5vaoheKAo6irbkwU1vKEp21nPR-vAWec7UrmV1uVCNKEeG3pG5RAPTNoaxsEYJjss2aOZkRGU~JnAnz1BsWDLFucPXc46T6MIwSUTKRNFWumlU8LhN0NCJ2roFgbhRD~h9M8Q7xRJ9E7fM6LYbJFjuKrS~3Ch0cGRmC9KadXQi4L0yuh2IgbkgvqNQPqTxpD81LANA-EhjjINolJsh8rtQzMlOh~PV8TqQTztv58vV03WBLjmC3Mlf1ayQDIv8bACzWwEAC0ByRfCjV8TGf6xQ__&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLOHF5GGSLRBV4ZA
Benbouzid, B. (2018). Values and Consequences in Predictive Machine Evaluation. A Sociology of Predictive Policing. Science & Technology Studies, 31.
Dinale, R. (2014). Nowcasting: how big data predict the present. [http://tesi.luiss.it/12588/1/dinale-riccardo-tesi-2014.pdf*](http://tesi.luiss.it/12588/1/dinale-riccardo-tesi-2014.pdf)

Emmy R. (2021) PredPol Supports Community Policing. https://www.predpol.com/predpol-supports-community-policing/
Moraff, C.(2019). The Problem with Some of the Most Powerful Numbers in Modern Policing. https://nextcity.org/daily/entry/predictive-policing-crime-statsdata-measure. 

O'Donnell, R. M. (2019). Challenging racist predictive policing algorithms under the equal protection clause. NYUL Rev., 94, 544.* [https://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/nylr94&div=20&g_sent=1&casa_token=&collection=journals*](https://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/nylr94&div=20&g_sent=1&casa_token=&collection=journals)
PredPol-Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PredPol
The official website of PredPol. https://www.predpol.com/